Menu
Using App Router
Features available in /app
Using Latest Version
15.1.7
Using App Router
Features available in /app
Using Latest Version
15.1.7
App RouterGetting StartedCSS
# How to use CSS in your application
Next.js provides several ways to use CSS in your application, including:
  * CSS Modules
  * Global CSS
  * Tailwind CSS
  * Sass
  * CSS-in-JS
  * External Stylesheets


This page will guide you through how to use each of these approaches.
## CSS Modules
CSS Modules locally scope CSS by generating unique class names. This allows you to use the same class in different files without worrying about collisions.
To start using CSS Modules, create a new file with the extension `.module.css` and import it into any component inside the `app` directory:
app/blog/styles.module.css
```
.blog {
padding:24px;
}
```

app/blog/page.tsx
TypeScript
JavaScriptTypeScript
```
import styles from'./styles.module.css'
exportdefaultfunctionPage({ children }: { children:React.ReactNode }) {
return <mainclassName={styles.blog}>{children}</main>
}
```

## Global CSS
You can use global CSS to apply styles across your application.
To use global styles, create a new CSS file, for example `app/global.css`:
app/global.css
```
body {
padding:20px 20px 60px;
max-width:680px;
margin:0 auto;
}
```

Import the file in the root layout (`app/layout.js`) to apply the styles to **every route** in your application:
app/layout.tsx
TypeScript
JavaScriptTypeScript
```
// These styles apply to every route in the application
import'./global.css'
exportdefaultfunctionRootLayout({
 children,
}: {
 children:React.ReactNode
}) {
return (
  <htmllang="en">
   <body>{children}</body>
  </html>
 )
}
```

> **Good to know:** Global styles can be imported into any layout, page, or component inside the `app` directory. However, since Next.js uses React's built-in support for stylesheets to integrate with Suspense. This built-in support currently does not remove stylesheets as you navigate between routes. Therefore, we recommend using global styles for _truly_ global CSS, and CSS Modules for scoped CSS.
## Tailwind CSS
Tailwind CSS is a utility-first CSS framework that integrates seamlessly with Next.js.
### Installing Tailwind
To start using Tailwind, install the necessary Tailwind CSS packages:
Terminal
```
npm install-Dtailwindcss@tailwindcss/postcsspostcss
```

### Configuring Tailwind
Create a `postcss.config.mjs` file in the root of your project and add the `@tailwindcss/postcss` plugin to your PostCSS configuration:
postcss.config.mjs
```
/** @type{import('tailwindcss').Config} */
exportdefault {
 plugins: {
'@tailwindcss/postcss': {},
 },
}
```

### Using Tailwind
Add the Tailwind directives to your Global Stylesheet:
app/globals.css
```
@import'tailwindcss';
```

Then, import the styles in the root layout:
app/layout.tsx
TypeScript
JavaScriptTypeScript
```
importtype { Metadata } from'next'
// These styles apply to every route in the application
import'./globals.css'
exportconstmetadata:Metadata= {
 title:'Create Next App',
 description:'Generated by create next app',
}
exportdefaultfunctionRootLayout({
 children,
}: {
 children:React.ReactNode
}) {
return (
  <htmllang="en">
   <body>{children}</body>
  </html>
 )
}
```

Lastly, you can start writing Tailwind's utility classes in your application.
app/page.tsx
TypeScript
JavaScriptTypeScript
```
exportdefaultfunctionPage() {
return <h1className="text-3xl font-bold underline">Hello, Next.js!</h1>
}
```

## Sass
Next.js integrates with Sass using both the `.scss` and `.sass` extensions and syntax.
You can also use component-level Sass via CSS Modules and the `.module.scss`or `.module.sass` extension.
### Installing Sass
To start using Sass, install the `sass` package:
Terminal
```
npm install--save-devsass
```

### Customizing Sass options
If you want to configure your Sass options, use the `sassOptions` option in `next.config.js`.
next.config.ts
TypeScript
JavaScriptTypeScript
```
importtype { NextConfig } from'next'
constnextConfig:NextConfig= {
 sassOptions: {
  additionalData:`$var: red;`,
 },
}
exportdefault nextConfig
```

## CSS-in-JS
> **Warning:** CSS-in-JS libraries which require runtime JavaScript are not currently supported in React Server Components. Using CSS-in-JS with newer React features like Server Components and Streaming requires library authors to support the latest version of React.
The following libraries are supported in **Client Components** in the `app` directory (alphabetical):
  * `ant-design`
  * `chakra-ui`
  * `@fluentui/react-components`
  * `kuma-ui`
  * `@mui/material`
  * `@mui/joy`
  * `pandacss`
  * `styled-jsx`
  * `styled-components`
  * `stylex`
  * `tamagui`
  * `tss-react`
  * `vanilla-extract`


The following are currently working on support:
  * `emotion`


If you want to style Server Components, we recommend using CSS Modules or other solutions that output CSS files, like Tailwind CSS.
### Configuring CSS-in-JS
To configure CSS-in-JS, you need to:
  1. Create a **style registry** to collect all CSS rules in a render.
  2. Use the `useServerInsertedHTML` hook to inject rules before any content that might use them.
  3. Create a Client Component that wraps your app with the style registry during initial server-side rendering.


#### `styled-jsx`
To configure `styled-jsx` for your application, create a new registry:
app/registry.tsx
TypeScript
JavaScriptTypeScript
```
'use client'
import React, { useState } from'react'
import { useServerInsertedHTML } from'next/navigation'
import { StyleRegistry, createStyleRegistry } from'styled-jsx'
exportdefaultfunctionStyledJsxRegistry({
 children,
}: {
 children:React.ReactNode
}) {
// Only create stylesheet once with lazy initial state
// x-ref: https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-reference.html#lazy-initial-state
const [jsxStyleRegistry] =useState(() =>createStyleRegistry())
useServerInsertedHTML(() => {
conststyles=jsxStyleRegistry.styles()
jsxStyleRegistry.flush()
return <>{styles}</>
 })
return <StyleRegistryregistry={jsxStyleRegistry}>{children}</StyleRegistry>
}
```

Then, wrap your root layout with the registry:
app/layout.tsx
TypeScript
JavaScriptTypeScript
```
import StyledJsxRegistry from'./registry'
exportdefaultfunctionRootLayout({
 children,
}: {
 children:React.ReactNode
}) {
return (
  <html>
   <body>
    <StyledJsxRegistry>{children}</StyledJsxRegistry>
   </body>
  </html>
 )
}
```

#### `styled-components`
To use `styled-components`, enable it in `next.config.js`:
next.config.ts
TypeScript
JavaScriptTypeScript
```
importtype { NextConfig } from'next'
constnextConfig:NextConfig= {
 compiler: {
  styledComponents:true,
 },
}
exportdefault nextConfig
```

Then, use the `styled-components` API to create a global registry component to collect all CSS style rules generated during a render, and a function to return those rules. Then use the `useServerInsertedHTML` hook to inject the styles collected in the registry into the `<head>` HTML tag in the root layout.
lib/registry.tsx
TypeScript
JavaScriptTypeScript
```
'use client'
import React, { useState } from'react'
import { useServerInsertedHTML } from'next/navigation'
import { ServerStyleSheet, StyleSheetManager } from'styled-components'
exportdefaultfunctionStyledComponentsRegistry({
 children,
}: {
 children:React.ReactNode
}) {
// Only create stylesheet once with lazy initial state
// x-ref: https://reactjs.org/docs/hooks-reference.html#lazy-initial-state
const [styledComponentsStyleSheet] =useState(() =>newServerStyleSheet())
useServerInsertedHTML(() => {
conststyles=styledComponentsStyleSheet.getStyleElement()
styledComponentsStyleSheet.instance.clearTag()
return <>{styles}</>
 })
if (typeof window !=='undefined') return <>{children}</>
return (
  <StyleSheetManagersheet={styledComponentsStyleSheet.instance}>
   {children}
  </StyleSheetManager>
 )
}
```

Wrap the `children` of the root layout with the style registry component:
app/layout.tsx
TypeScript
JavaScriptTypeScript
```
import StyledComponentsRegistry from'./lib/registry'
exportdefaultfunctionRootLayout({
 children,
}: {
 children:React.ReactNode
}) {
return (
  <html>
   <body>
    <StyledComponentsRegistry>{children}</StyledComponentsRegistry>
   </body>
  </html>
 )
}
```

## External stylesheets
Stylesheets published by external packages can be imported anywhere in the `app` directory, including colocated components:
app/layout.tsx
TypeScript
JavaScriptTypeScript
```
import'bootstrap/dist/css/bootstrap.css'
exportdefaultfunctionRootLayout({
 children,
}: {
 children:React.ReactNode
}) {
return (
  <htmllang="en">
   <bodyclassName="container">{children}</body>
  </html>
 )
}
```

External stylesheets must be directly imported from an npm package or downloaded and colocated with your codebase. You cannot use `<link rel="stylesheet" />`.
## API Reference
Learn more about the features mentioned in this page by reading the API Reference.
### sassOptions
Configure Sass options.
### Next.js Compiler
Next.js Compiler, written in Rust, which transforms and minifies your Next.js application.
Was this helpful?
supported.
Send
